423 
FXUS66 KLOX 260535
AFDLOX

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Los Angeles/Oxnard CA 
1035 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...25/912 PM.

Mostly clear, calm conditions are expected tonight. Temperatures 
will be a little cooler Wednesday as onshore flow and some marine 
layer returns. A weak Santa Ana wind event is forecast for 
Thursday with warm and breezy conditions across the coasts and 
valleys.

&&

.SHORT TERM (TUE-FRI)...25/828 PM.

***UPDATE***

As of 03Z this evening, the SBA-SMX pressure gradient was -3.3 mb
which was helping to drive strong and gusty NW to N winds across 
the SW SBA County coast and western Santa Ynez Mtns, especially 
below and through the passes and canyons. Wind gusts up to 45 mph 
have been observed west of Gaviota. These winds will persist 
overnight before diminishing late. As a result, have issued a Wind
Advisory for these areas until 3 AM PDT Wed. Please see the 
latest Non-Precipitation Weather Message (LAXNPWLOX) for further 
details.

Otherwise, the weather was generally quiet across the region this
evening with clear skies in all areas. There may be a few hi
clouds drifting overhead from time to time tonight, otherwise the
mostly clear skies should continue. The latest NAM was forecasting
a significant increase in boundary layer moisture along the 
Central Coast and also over the SoCal Bight with an eddy 
developing, which would suggest low clouds developing in these 
areas overnight into Wed morning. However, the latest satellite 
trends would suggest otherwise. Further, the 00Z NAM MOS has 
backed off on any low cigs developing at airports in these areas. 
As a result, with the latest zone fcst update have greatly back- 
tracked on low clouds and fog tonight into Wed morning, with just 
Santa Catalina island expected to have these conditions early Wed 
morning. Remainder of fcst looks on track.

***From Previous Discussion***

Synoptically,the area is in the southwestern portion of a long
wave upper level-trough that has dropped into Washington state. 
On Thursday a pop-up ridge moves up from the southwest nudging the
trough to the east and the pressure gradient at the surface will 
cause another mild offshore flow day similar to what was 
experienced on Monday. Deterministic and ensemble models all seem 
to struggle with the exact pattern after the ridge exits on Friday,
but it looks like there will be some lower pressure well off the 
coast to the west beginning on Sunday. Yesterday's models that 
suggested a chance of rain in NW SLO Co have backed away from that
and it looks like we will remain in a benign sensible weather 
pattern with broad gradients and no precipitation.

As the trough begins to move to the east on Wednesday there will 
be breezy northerly winds across the mountains and much of SBA Co.

High pressure will build into the great basin on Thursday and
produce about 3 mb of offshore flow both from the north and the 
east. There is no upper support for this wind event and only 
limited thermal support so it will be at be another mild to 
moderate event with some low end wind advisories needed for the wind
corridor from the Santa Clarita area to the eastern Ventura 
county valleys and the western Santa Monicas. This offshore push 
will bring 3 to 5 degrees of warming to the coasts and valleys.  

The NAM continues the offshore trend into Friday so another day of
mild temperature gains and possibly advisory-strength winds in the
same areas as on Thursday.

.LONG TERM (SAT-TUE)...25/152 PM.

Deterministic and ensemble guidance (GEFS ECS GEPS) continue to 
struggle with the pattern this weekend and early next week. Most 
ensemble members now keep the precip (if any) in northern 
California and the NBM peaks at about 10 percent PoPs over the 
waters northwest of SLO Co. Temperatures will likely peak Saturday
while remaining about seasonal average, and then cooling a few 
degrees by Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION...26/0534Z.

At 0411Z, the marine layer was 700 feet deep. The top of the 
inversion was at 1400 feet with a temperature of 16 C.

Good confidence in TAFs xcp for a 30 percent chc of no low clouds
at KSMX and a 20 percent chc of IFR cigs/vis at KLGB 13Z-17Z.

KLAX...Good confidence in TAF with only a 10 percent chc of BKN005
conds 13Z-16Z. Good confidence that any east wind component will
be under 5 kt.

KBUR...High confidence in CAVU TAF.

&&

.MARINE...25/1004 PM.

For the Outer Waters, moderate to high confidence in current 
forecast. Current winds for much of the outer waters are Small 
Craft Advisory (SCA) levels, pushing near Gale Force. The Gale 
Warning for the northern two zones of the outer waters Wednesday 
afternoon and evening has been extended to cover all of the outer
waters. For Friday and Saturday, high confidence in winds and 
seas remaining below SCA levels for PZZ670/673, but there is a 
40-50% chance of SCA level winds across PZZ676. 

For the Inner Waters north of Point Sal, high confidence in
current forecast. SCA level winds are expected during the
afternoon and evening hours Wednesday with a 30% chance of SCA 
level seas on Wednesday. For Thursday through Saturday, high 
confidence in winds and seas remaining below SCA levels. 

For the Inner Waters south of Point Conception, moderate
confidence in current forecast. Wednesday afternoon, there is a 
50-60% chance of SCA level winds to spread into central and
southern portions of the Santa Barbara Channel and seas may
approach 7 feet over western portions and near Santa Cruz Island. 
On Thursday, there is a 30-40% chance of SCA level northeast winds
from Point Mugu to Santa Monica. For Friday and Saturday, high 
confidence in winds and seas remaining below SCA levels for all 
the southern Inner Waters.

&&

.LOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...Wind Advisory in effect until 3 AM PDT Wednesday for zones
      349-351. (See LAXNPWLOX).
PZ...Small Craft Advisory in effect until 3 AM PDT Wednesday for
      zone 645. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Small Craft Advisory in effect until 3 PM PDT Wednesday for
      zones 670-673-676. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Gale Warning in effect from 3 PM Wednesday to 2 AM PDT
      Thursday for zones 670-673-676. (See LAXMWWLOX).

&&

$$

PUBLIC...jld/Sirard
AVIATION...Rorke
MARINE...Phillips/Sweet
SYNOPSIS...30

weather.gov/losangeles

Experimental Graphical Hazardous Weather Outlook at:
https://www.weather.gov/erh/ghwo?wfo=lox
