425 
FXUS61 KGYX 260152 AAB
AFDGYX

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Gray ME
952 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Unsettled, warm, and at times foggy conditions prevail through 
midweek. The best chance of showers will be on Wednesday as low
pressure moves through the Gulf of Maine, potentially bringing 
some heavy rainfall across the Midcoast. A cold front presses 
across the area on Thursday, bringing cooler and drier 
conditions for the end of the week and the start of next 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Update...Minor changes to reflect latest observational trends.

Previous discussion...Highly amplified 500 MB ridge and sfc 
high too the east are providing mostly weak flow in the 
atmosphere, with onshore flow at the sfc, with Tds mostly around
60 and water temps in the mid 50s, this has allowed fog to 
linger in many spots through the day, and this effect will only 
increase tonight as air temps drop as well. So expecting a 
return to widespread fog, and possible some dense areas as well.
May need dense fog advisory later this evening, but rather than
broad brushing across all of the coastal plain and into the 
foothills will wait a little bit and see where it gets going. 

Also will see the chance of showers move in from the S later
tonight, as remnant tropical low shifts to our S late tonight,
before turning N Wed morning. Some of these showers are S of RI
and Cape Cod attm. With Tds currently near 60, temps will not
fall too much in most places, and lows should be mostly in the
upper 50s to 60. Balmy for late October.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
The remnant tropical low track N toward the Me coast on Wed, and
will begin to phase with 500 MB wave moving out of the Ohio
valley. This couple with some mid-level deformation and some
moderate coupled jet dynamics, should produce a period of heavy
rain showers or possible training of cells, and rainfall 
amounts of an or more in a short period of time. This will be 
mainly N and E of PWM. It will likely be localized as well, and 
not a guarantee, but the potential is there, especially given 
PWATS of possibly over 1.5”, which is near the 90th percentile. 
Once again highly anomalous for late October. Despite clouds and
rain, highs should make it into the low 60s, but warmer N and W
of the mtns in the downslope. 

The sfc low accelerates to the N as it intensifies Wed
afternoon, and should exit ME to the N by midnight. So,
expecting any precip to wind down early to mid evening. Fog
settles in again once the rain ends, as cold front will have to
wait for 500 MB trough axis to move through, which happen after
midnight, and will likely have to wait for daytime mixing to mix
the front to the sfc and E of the mtns.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A cold front will be pushing through the area early Thursday 
with NW flow developing behind it as a broad high pressure 
builds in over the Great Lakes. The NW flow will continue to dry
out the atmosphere from west to east through the day with skies
becoming mostly sunny, except across the mountains where more 
clouds and some shower activity will probably last through the 
day with upsloping behind the front. Thursday is also looking on
the breezy side once we start mixing from late morning into the
afternoon, and forecast soundings support wind gusts on the 
order of around 25 mph, perhaps hitting 30 mph on occasion. 
Downsloping will result in a fairly warm day south of the 
mountains with highs in the mid to upper 60s, possibly up to 70 
closer to the coast.

The high pressure will settle overhead from Friday into the 
upcoming weekend, giving us a stretch of dry weather with light 
winds. Temperatures are expected to be near or slightly below 
normal for Friday and Saturday with highs generally in the 50s 
and lows in the upper 20s to mid 30s. By Sunday, temperatures 
look to rebound back into the lower 60s with low-level flow 
taking on a more southerly component. Forecast soundings from 
Fri-Sun show very dry air aloft and have gone lower than the NBM
guidance for late morning and afternoon dewpoints. 

The upper ridge and surface high will slide east of the region 
early next week in response to a shortwave trough approaching 
and moving across the Great Lakes region. This system will 
probably bring some showers to the area sometime early next 
week, but differences in the upper air pattern depicted by the 
global models don't lend much confidence in timing. The forecast
has scaled back rain chances for Sunday night (supported by 
ensembles), and there is also some ensemble support for dry 
conditions through Monday as well. However, due to uncertainty, 
the forecast will keep the low-end chance of showers advertised 
by the NBM for Monday and Tuesday for the time being.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Short Term...IFR is expected at all but KLEB/KHIE into early
evening, when every thing drops LIFR /except KHIE. LIFR hangs
through much of the morning before slight improvement to IFR
midday again, but will see conditions fall again Wed evening
before quick improvement to VFR Thu morning. 

Long Term...MVFR to possibly IFR ceilings and/or fog may linger
into Thursday morning toward AUG and RKD, but otherwise high 
pressure building into the region will bring mainly VFR 
conditions through the upcoming weekend. The one exception may 
be at HIE on Thursday where upslope conditions could keep MVFR 
ceilings and perhaps some showers through much of the day. 
Northwest winds are expected to gust to around 25 kt at all 
sites from late Thursday morning through late afternoon.

&&

.MARINE...
Short Term...Winds/seas stay below SCA criteria through Wed
night. However, areas of dense fog will remain over the waters 
at times.

Long Term...Breezy northwest flow will develop by Thursday 
afternoon behind cold front, and a Small Craft Advisory will 
probably be needed for some, if not all, of the waters. SCA 
conditions continue Thursday night and into early Friday as 
winds veer north and then northeast with high pressure building 
into the region. Conditions will then improve late Friday and 
through the weekend as winds diminish and seas subside once the 
high pressure start to settle overhead. Conditions look to 
remain below SCA levels through early next week.

&&

.GYX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ME...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT Wednesday for MEZ018>028.
NH...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT Wednesday for NHZ010-
     012>014.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...Legro
