550 
FXUS65 KABQ 261753 AAB
AFDABQ

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Albuquerque NM
1153 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 140 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Mostly sunny skies will prevail today, and temperatures may gain 
a couple to a few more degrees. However, northern and central New
Mexico will still remain slightly below normal for late October. 
Breezy conditions will also develop this afternoon with gust of 15
to 25 mph expected in many locations. Another low pressure system
is still forecast to race into New Mexico on Thursday, crossing 
from the Four Corners area southeastward into the plains. This 
weather system will be accompanied by stronger winds, colder 
temperatures and light rain and mountain snow showers. A few 
thunderstorms will even be possible Thursday afternoon, and high 
mountain locations may also receive a dusting to a couple inches 
of fresh snow accumulation, especially in northern areas of the 
state. Mostly dry conditions will prevail Friday through the 
weekend and into early next week with temperatures struggling to 
warm back to normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 140 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Zonal flow aloft remains today with breezy to locally windy westerly 
winds for parts of west-central NM. A lee-side surface low over 
eastern CO will turn wind directions southwesterly through the 
central highlands and northeastern plains where breezy to locally 
windy conditions are also expected. There will be a downslope 
warming component to these winds raising today's high temperatures 
to ~70F across the eastern plains. However, lowering pressure 
heights will limit this to only a few degree warmup today. 
Otherwise, increasing cloud cover will enter northwestern and 
central NM today with overall mostly pleasant conditions. 

The weather pattern changes Thursday morning as an amplifying jet 
pattern across the northern Pacific and into the PacNW produces a 
closed upper low diving southeast toward NM. Snow levels look to 
start at valley floors through northwestern NM near dawn Thursday 
morning. Precipitation quickly spreads through the northern 
mountains and southward to the middle Rio Grande Valley and the ABQ 
metro area by mid-day. Model guidance has sped up the arrival time 
of a backdoor cold front surging southward into northeastern NM 
ahead of the upper low to the early afternoon Thursday. The surface 
upslope flow undercutting the low will enhance precipitation 
coverage over the Sangre de Cristo Mountains and Raton Pass area 
Thursday afternoon. CAA behind the backdoor cold front and H7 
temperatures of -2C to -4C will favor snow spreading along the Raton 
Pass and Johnson/Bartlett Mesas Thursday afternoon. Snow reaching 
Raton proper and along I-25 southward to Wagon Mound and Las Vegas 
will be a question mark, but temperatures are favored to remain too 
warm with this forecast package. Snow accumulations will be limited 
due to the quick speed of the upper low which is expected to move 
southeast toward Roswell or Clovis Thursday night and then into the 
TX Panhandle by Friday morning. Two to six inches will favor the 
higher peaks of the Sangre de Cristo's and Raton Pass area. 

Strong winds are also expected with this storm system Thursday, as a 
90kt jet max rounds the southwestern periphery of the low. H7 winds 
will reach the 35-40kt range as the Pacific portion of the cold 
front surges into western NM. Have trended higher with advisory 
level wind speeds along the continental divide Thursday afternoon. 
There is greater uncertainty regarding wind speed potential behind 
the backdoor portion of the cold front through eastern NM. Overall 
though, it does not look like a high wind event.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Thursday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 140 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

While model consensus is slower to take the upper low east of New
Mexico, precipitation should be on a downward trend from west to 
east Thursday night. Strong northerly winds in the plains will 
remain gusty overnight, and surface dewpoints may remain elevated 
in the upper 30's to lower 40's, keeping low temperatures from 
plummeting below freezing there, however brisk conditions will 
still prevail. Friday's high temperatures will start to warm some 
above Thursday's readings, except in the east central to 
southeastern plains zones where the later onset of cold air 
advection will arrive. Regardless, all zones will be below average
during the daytime Friday, generally staying 5 to 15 degrees 
under climatology. North northeasterly winds should finally relax 
in the plains late in the day. 

A weak shortwave trough in northwest flow aloft may clip northern
NM on Saturday, but should be inconsequential with mostly clear
skies and slightly warmer, but still below average, temperatures
expected. Into, Sunday another weak shortwave trough is expected
to slide down the CA coastline, but should be void of moisture and
too far displaced to impact NM weather, other than some batches of
high cirrus clouds that will drop into our state within northwest
flow aloft. The latter shortwave would close off into a low as it
enters northwestern Mexico on Monday, but a clearing trend will 
befall over NM with temperatures plateauing a few degrees shy of 
normal.

The polar jet shows signs of strengthening and bending over the 
northwestern ConUS on Tuesday, a harbinger that the next Rossby
wave may be coming. However, deterministic models have egregious
differences in opinion with the operational GFS closing off a deep
543 dam low over northern CA by late Wednesday, whereas the ECMWF
keeps a more progressive open longwave feature closing in on the 
Rockies. Ensemble means depict more consensus with the deepest
height anomalies painted over NV and UT with the GEFS perhaps 
running just slightly ahead (east) of the EPS. Increasing
breeziness on Tuesday would seem likely in this pattern with more
widespread stronger winds on Wednesday. Blended model output puts
northwestern NM in the best location for precipitation Tuesday
night into Wednesday of next week, and this would also comply with
the extrapolated ensemble output.

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 1142 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Winds aloft will increase today and tonight ahead of an upper low
currently over ID. Breezy west to southwest winds with gusts of 
15 to 25kts this afternoon will be common this afternoon through 
around sunset. Upper low and associated cold front drops from 
northwest to southeast across NM Thursday with a wind shift to
northwesterly from late morning to early afternoon. Widespread
gusty northwest to north winds will follow the frontal passage.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 140 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

No critical fire weather is forecast through the period. Breezier 
and warmer weather is on tap today before a sharp cool down arrives 
Thursday. This will be accompanied by much strong northwesterly 
winds with gusts upwards of 40 to 50 mph pushing through western and 
then central NM Thursday. A backdoor front will bring strong 
northerly winds through northeastern NM during this time as well. 
Wetting precipitation will favor the northern mountains in the form 
of snow where several inches up to 6 inches could reach the Sangre 
Cristo Mountains and Raton Pass area by Friday morning. Northerly 
winds look to linger through the eastern plains Friday as the storm 
system exits into TX. Temperatures begin a warming trend with lesser 
winds and widespread poor ventilation returning for the weekend and 
into the start of next week. 

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Farmington......................  33  51  25  56 /  20  20   0   0 
Dulce...........................  27  48  17  57 /  30  50  10   0 
Cuba............................  30  44  22  53 /   5  30  10   0 
Gallup..........................  31  45  16  57 /   0  10   5   0 
El Morro........................  30  42  15  55 /   0  10  10   0 
Grants..........................  31  46  18  56 /   0  10  10   0 
Quemado.........................  32  47  17  57 /   0  10   5   0 
Magdalena.......................  35  51  27  53 /   0  10  10   0 
Datil...........................  32  46  20  52 /   0  10  10   0 
Reserve.........................  31  59  22  61 /   0   5   5   0 
Glenwood........................  38  63  28  62 /   0   0   0   0 
Chama...........................  26  41  15  51 /  30  60  20   0 
Los Alamos......................  34  44  27  51 /   5  40  20   0 
Pecos...........................  33  46  26  52 /   0  50  30   5 
Cerro/Questa....................  25  42  18  50 /   5  70  30   5 
Red River.......................  24  37  14  45 /   5  70  40  10 
Angel Fire......................  26  39   9  47 /   0  80  40  10 
Taos............................  29  45  19  52 /   5  60  30   5 
Mora............................  31  45  22  49 /   0  70  40  10 
Espanola........................  33  52  25  57 /   5  40  20   0 
Santa Fe........................  34  45  26  52 /   5  40  30   5 
Santa Fe Airport................  32  48  26  55 /   5  40  20   0 
Albuquerque Foothills...........  39  52  33  57 /   5  20  20   0 
Albuquerque Heights.............  39  53  35  58 /   5  20  20   0 
Albuquerque Valley..............  38  56  27  60 /   5  20  20   0 
Albuquerque West Mesa...........  38  53  31  58 /   5  20  10   0 
Belen...........................  37  57  29  61 /   5  20  10   0 
Bernalillo......................  38  55  29  59 /   5  20  20   0 
Bosque Farms....................  37  56  28  61 /   5  20  10   0 
Corrales........................  38  55  30  59 /   5  20  20   0 
Los Lunas.......................  37  56  29  61 /   5  20  10   0 
Placitas........................  38  49  30  56 /   0  20  20   0 
Rio Rancho......................  38  54  30  58 /   5  20  20   0 
Socorro.........................  40  62  33  60 /   5  10  10   0 
Sandia Park/Cedar Crest.........  36  44  27  51 /   0  40  20   0 
Tijeras.........................  36  47  28  55 /   0  40  20   0 
Edgewood........................  34  48  26  53 /   0  30  20   5 
Moriarty/Estancia...............  33  51  26  55 /   0  30  30   5 
Clines Corners..................  34  47  27  50 /   0  30  30  10 
Mountainair.....................  36  50  27  53 /   0  30  20   5 
Gran Quivira....................  37  51  29  54 /   0  20  20   5 
Carrizozo.......................  42  59  34  57 /   0  20  30   5 
Ruidoso.........................  36  51  27  48 /   5  20  30   5 
Capulin.........................  33  44  25  50 /   0  70  50  10 
Raton...........................  30  47  24  55 /   0  70  40  10 
Springer........................  31  51  25  55 /   0  70  40  10 
Las Vegas.......................  34  48  25  53 /   0  60  40  10 
Clayton.........................  40  53  35  55 /   0  60  60  20 
Roy.............................  36  51  30  54 /   0  60  50  10 
Conchas.........................  43  61  38  59 /   0  50  50  10 
Santa Rosa......................  43  59  37  58 /   0  30  50  10 
Tucumcari.......................  44  62  42  58 /   0  40  60  20 
Clovis..........................  42  62  38  54 /   0  20  60  20 
Portales........................  43  66  39  55 /   0  10  60  20 
Fort Sumner.....................  42  63  41  59 /   0  20  50  10 
Roswell.........................  43  71  42  62 /   0   5  30   5 
Picacho.........................  45  64  38  55 /   0  10  30   5 
Elk.............................  44  61  35  52 /   0  10  20   5 

&&

.ABQ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...24
LONG TERM....52
AVIATION...33
