780 
FXUS65 KABQ 261151 AAA
AFDABQ

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Albuquerque NM
551 AM MDT Thu Oct 26 2023

...New AVIATION...

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 205 AM MDT Thu Oct 26 2023

Warm today with breezy to windy conditions along and east of the
Central Mountain Chain. Elevated to near critical fire weather
conditions are expected across northeast areas. It will be cooler
Friday across eastern New Mexico in the wake of a cold front, 
though this will just be the teaser. A much stronger cold front 
will arrive Saturday night and temperatures will drop rapidly 
across eastern New Mexico behind the front. Enough moisture will 
be in place for a light wintry mix of precipitation, though 
accumulations will be minimal at best. The front will continue to 
press westward Sunday. Those areas that have not yet seen a freeze
this season are likely to do so this weekend. High temperatures 
on Sunday will be around 30 degrees below normal. It will be an 
abrupt change to our warmer than normal conditions. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Today through Friday)
Issued at 205 AM MDT Thu Oct 26 2023

The breeze in eastern NM has continued through the overnight hours 
with a few stronger gusts still occurring in the eastern plains near 
the TX border where the pressure gradient remains the strongest in 
the wake of the exiting upper-level low. As of 08Z this morning, 
satellite shows that some shallow radiational fog is trying to 
develop in the mountain valleys of southwestern AZ and west-central 
NM south of I-40. With efficient radiational cooling, temperatures 
should cool off to within a couple degrees of the dewpoint across 
valleys and lower lying areas throughout southwest and south-central 
NM. It's unclear if this fog with creep northward across I-40, but 
most hi-res models do show it staying just to the south before 
lifting by about 8AM this morning.

The breeze east of the central mountains will pick-up this afternoon 
as stronger winds aloft increase out ahead of a trough currently 
over Idaho. The lee side low in southwestern Colorado will deepen to 
around 998mb this afternoon as southwesterly jet level winds 
increase to around 75 kts. The corridor of strongest winds will 
extend from the southern Sangre de Cristo Mountains eastward to 
the TX border. Winds may gust up to about 45 mph which could 
create nuisance crosswinds on north-south oriented roadways. As 
the trough over the northern Rockies exits into the northern 
plains, it will send a cold front down the eastern plains which 
should arrive into the northeast corner of NM around 06Z Friday. 
This will drive a northerly breeze down the eastern plains and 
knock high temperatures down 10 to 25 degrees from Thursday's 
highs across eastern NM with the greatest change in the northeast.
The HREF indicates that there may be some patchy low clouds in 
the wake of the front, but most guidance is just too dry to have 
any clouds during the day on Friday. Winds turn more southerly by 
Friday afternoon as the surface high sags southward down the Great
Plains.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Friday night through Wednesday)
Issued at 205 AM MDT Thu Oct 26 2023

In the wake of Friday's backdoor cold front, winds behind the
front will veer around to the southeast Friday night, drawing up
Gulf moisture across much of the eastern plains. It's likely a low
stratus deck and some fog will develop across the eastern plains,
though couldn't rule out some light rain or drizzle. Meanwhile, a
large long wave trough will be developing across the western
2/3rds of the CONUS. On Saturday, west to southwest flow will
increase over NM as the trough axis sharpens over NV/ID. Breezy
surface winds should mix out some of the low level moisture across
the plains during the day, though some will remain near the OK/TX
borders. 

Big changes arrive Saturday night and Sunday. A potent backdoor
cold front will slide down the plains Saturday night. Temperatures
will rapidly drop to near or below freezing behind the front, but
the aforementioned moisture that remains in place will be tricky.
Forecast soundings suggest there will be a window where a wintry
mix will be possible. Light rain showers or drizzle may turn to 
freezing drizzle before perhaps changing over to snow. The good
news is amounts are expected to be very light, as the bulk of the
precipitation will be east of the state line. Further, the warm
temperatures preceding this front will limit any accumulation on
roads. Therefore, little in the way of impacts are expected, 
though low visibility in DZ/FZDZ and/or fog could impact 
travelers.

The front will continue to press westward late Saturday night and
Sunday morning, and should push through the gaps of the Central
Mountain Chain. At least a weak east canyon wind in the ABQ Metro
is expected by Sunday morning. While easterly upslope flow 
persists through the day Sunday, the trough axis will be nearing 
the Four Corners. Lift ahead of the trough combined with the low 
level upslope should allow for rain and snow showers to develop 
across much of north central NM and southwestward near the ContDvd
to roughly I-40 through Sunday night. The North Central Mountain 
areas could end up with a few inches of snow, and perhaps up to an
inch across the Sandia Mountains. The trough axis will become 
more flat/broad on Monday, low level upslope flow will diminish, 
and precipitation will come to an end. 

Those areas that have not seen a freeze this season, will likely
do so this weekend. Much of northeast and east central NM will see
a freeze Saturday night. Then, temperatures on Sunday across 
eastern NM will on average be around 30 degrees below normal, with
most locations struggling to make it out of the 30s. Low
temperatures will be even colder Sunday night with a widespread
hard freeze expected, to include much of the ABQ and Santa Fe
metros.

Much quieter conditions are expected for Tuesday and Wednesday,
though temperatures will remain cold. It will be a slow warmup
back to normal temperatures. The ghosts and goblins will need to
dress warmly for trick-or-treating as temperatures will be in the
30s and 40s for most locales Halloween evening.

&&

.AVIATION...
(12Z TAFS)
Issued at 542 AM MDT Thu Oct 26 2023

Patchy fog is possible near the Continental Divide through around
15Z this morning. Breezy southwest to west winds will prevail 
today with gusts as high as 35KT possible at terminals from the 
northern mountains eastward this afternoon. A backdoor cold front
is expected to enter the state from the northeast around 06Z 
Friday with gusty northerly winds in its wake. Most guidance 
suggests that it will be too dry for low clouds to develop, 
however brief MVFR cigs cannot be ruled out in the northeast 
corner of the state with the frontal passage. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 205 AM MDT Thu Oct 26 2023

Increasing southwest winds aloft will deepen the surface low in 
southwest Colorado this afternoon and drive breezy southwest to west 
winds across eastern NM along and east of the central mountain 
chain. Wind gusts up to 45 mph are possible along and just north of 
I-40 from the southern Sangre de Cristo Mountains eastward to the
TX border. Compressional warming combined with the advection of 
drier air from the west will result in afternoon humidities 10-20%
lower than yesterday throughout much of central and eastern NM. 
However, a backdoor cold front on Friday will drive breezy 
northerly winds across eastern NM, drop temperatures, and increase
humidities. Another, stronger backdoor cold front arrives 
Saturday night, dropping temperatures further and potentially 
bringing light wintry precipitation to the northern mountains and
eastern plains Saturday night through Monday afternoon. 
Widespread poor ventilation is also likely Sunday and Monday in 
the wake of the backdoor front. Ventilation improves mid-week as 
moisture decreases and dry, westerly flow takes over.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Farmington......................  67  39  69  42 /   5   0   0   5 
Dulce...........................  65  29  67  36 /   5   0   0  20 
Cuba............................  63  34  65  37 /   0   0   0   0 
Gallup..........................  66  27  69  33 /   0   0   0   0 
El Morro........................  64  28  67  33 /   0   0   0   0 
Grants..........................  69  27  72  33 /   0   0   0   0 
Quemado.........................  67  31  70  37 /   0   0   0   0 
Magdalena.......................  70  38  69  43 /   0   0   0   0 
Datil...........................  67  35  68  38 /   0   0   0   0 
Reserve.........................  71  31  72  33 /   0   0   0   0 
Glenwood........................  73  43  76  45 /   0   0   0   0 
Chama...........................  59  30  62  34 /   0   0   0  10 
Los Alamos......................  65  42  64  44 /   0   0   0   5 
Pecos...........................  65  40  65  40 /   0   0   0   5 
Cerro/Questa....................  63  28  63  33 /   0   0   0   5 
Red River.......................  58  27  59  31 /   0   0   0   5 
Angel Fire......................  59  19  59  29 /   0   0   0   5 
Taos............................  65  31  65  34 /   0   0   0   5 
Mora............................  66  32  63  36 /   0   0   0   5 
Espanola........................  71  33  72  39 /   0   0   0   5 
Santa Fe........................  65  42  66  42 /   0   0   0   5 
Santa Fe Airport................  68  36  69  39 /   0   0   0   5 
Albuquerque Foothills...........  70  46  72  45 /   0   0   0   0 
Albuquerque Heights.............  72  42  74  46 /   0   0   0   0 
Albuquerque Valley..............  74  40  75  41 /   0   0   0   0 
Albuquerque West Mesa...........  73  43  73  45 /   0   0   0   0 
Belen...........................  74  33  75  39 /   0   0   0   0 
Bernalillo......................  73  40  75  42 /   0   0   0   0 
Bosque Farms....................  73  33  75  38 /   0   0   0   0 
Corrales........................  73  41  75  43 /   0   0   0   0 
Los Lunas.......................  74  34  75  39 /   0   0   0   0 
Placitas........................  68  44  71  44 /   0   0   0   0 
Rio Rancho......................  72  43  73  45 /   0   0   0   0 
Socorro.........................  76  42  76  45 /   0   0   0   0 
Sandia Park/Cedar Crest.........  63  43  65  44 /   0   0   0   0 
Tijeras.........................  66  42  69  44 /   0   0   0   0 
Edgewood........................  67  35  70  40 /   0   0   0   5 
Moriarty/Estancia...............  69  28  70  33 /   0   0   0   5 
Clines Corners..................  66  36  64  39 /   0   0   0   5 
Mountainair.....................  67  37  71  41 /   0   0   0   0 
Gran Quivira....................  67  38  70  41 /   0   0   0   5 
Carrizozo.......................  70  44  75  49 /   0   0   0   5 
Ruidoso.........................  65  42  68  45 /   0   0   5   5 
Capulin.........................  70  32  55  37 /   0   0   0   5 
Raton...........................  73  34  60  36 /   0   0   0   5 
Springer........................  75  34  62  37 /   0   0   0   5 
Las Vegas.......................  70  36  60  38 /   0   0   0   5 
Clayton.........................  78  39  56  38 /   0   0   0  10 
Roy.............................  75  38  58  41 /   0   0   0   5 
Conchas.........................  79  41  63  43 /   0   0   0  10 
Santa Rosa......................  76  42  63  44 /   0   0   0  10 
Tucumcari.......................  79  42  62  45 /   0   0   0  20 
Clovis..........................  78  44  66  48 /   0   0   5  20 
Portales........................  79  46  69  50 /   0   0   5  20 
Fort Sumner.....................  79  44  67  50 /   0   0   0  10 
Roswell.........................  82  49  78  57 /   0   0   0  10 
Picacho.........................  77  44  72  47 /   0   0   0   5 
Elk.............................  75  42  74  46 /   0   0   0   5 

&&

.ABQ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...16
LONG TERM....34
AVIATION...16
