217 
FXUS65 KABQ 260557 AAB
AFDABQ

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Albuquerque NM
1157 PM MDT Wed Oct 25 2023

...New AVIATION...

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 329 PM MDT Wed Oct 25 2023

Drier and warmer conditions are still on track for Thursday, with 
breezy to locally windy conditions across northeast and east central 
New Mexico. A backdoor front sneaks into northeast NM Friday, 
cooling temperatures below normal in that area. Some low clouds, 
drizzle, and possibly some fog develops across southeastern and east 
central areas Saturday morning slowly clearing up later in the day. 
The retreated backdoor front just northeast of the state Saturday 
afternoon looks to surge southwest Saturday evening and night 
towards the Continental Divide ahead of the next storm system, with 
a much colder airmass in it's wake. Moisture behind the front could 
interact with the cold air and result in some wintry precip in 
northeast and east central areas near the Texas border. Sunday looks 
much colder areawide behind the backdoor front with temperatures as 
much as 30 degrees below normal across the eastern plains. Some
showers and high elevation snow is possible across north central
areas late Sunday into very early Monday ahead of a disturbance. The
colder air across eastern New Mexico spreads further west Sunday 
night into the Halloween holiday resulting in a likely hard freeze
areawide Sunday night and Monday night and chilly daytime 
temperatures Monday and Tuesday.

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 329 PM MDT Wed Oct 25 2023

Sparse showers and even fewer thunderstorms will continue through 
early evening. The coverage that currently encompasses areas east of 
the Continental Divide will dwindle eastward into the plains early 
this evening before all activity fully dissipates. Mostly clear 
skies will then prevail overnight, and ridge tops over northern NM 
should start to observe some stiffer breezes toward dawn Thursday. 

The dry west southwest flow aloft will continue to increase a bit 
more through the day Thursday with 700 mb speeds averaging around 15 
to 35 kt, and a lee side surface low will quickly be rendered over 
southeast CO and northeast NM. This will instill some breezy to 
windy conditions over the forecast area Thursday afternoon as 
vertical mixing ensues. Sustained speeds should stay below Wind 
Advisory criteria, but some gusts to 40 to 45 mph will be possible 
between the corridor between Las Vegas/Clines Corners to Tucumcari. 
Temperatures will warm up a few degrees, mainly in eastern areas 
where compressional warming from the downsloping winds will be 
found. 

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Friday through Tuesday)
Issued at 329 PM MDT Wed Oct 25 2023

A 1035 mb surface high over the northern Rockies, behind a shortwave 
trough moving through the Northern Great Plains and Upper Midwest, 
will help send a backdoor front through the eastern plains early 
Friday morning, cooling high temperatures down to around 5 to 12 
degrees below average across northeast and east central NM. Some 
breezy conditions are possible along the east slopes of the Sangre 
de Cristo mountain Friday afternoon due to a tight surface pressure 
gradient along the leading edge of the backdoor front. Elsewhere, 
Friday's highs will be pretty similar to Thursday's under mostly 
sunny skies.

The next upper level longwave trough dives southeast into the 
Pacific Northwest and northern Rockies Friday night. In response, 
return flow develops across southeast NM, pulling up some Gulf 
moisture into the region, as indicated by dewpoints in the 50s. This 
will result in some eerie looking low clouds, drizzle/light showers 
and possibly some patchy fog. Soundings support the mention of some 
sprinkles across southeast and east central areas Friday night 
through mid Saturday morning. Compared to yesterday's 12Z runs, the 
higher surface moisture does not mix out east as quickly, thus low 
clouds could hang on longer during the first half of the day than 
previously anticipated. The higher surface moisture looks to hold up 
near the Texas border during the 2nd half of Saturday. Southwest 
winds will strengthen during the afternoon hours across the northern 
mountains and northeast NM ahead of the upper level trough, pushing 
the backdoor front back north near the Colorado border. Clearer 
skies in this region will be able to tap into some of the strong 500 
mb flow at around 50 to 60 kts . However, the NBM winds looked to be 
much stronger compared to most guidance, so tapered it down a bit 
with breezy to locally windy conditions across the northern 
mountains and northeast plains. One uncertain part of the forecast 
in this region is high temperatures, as it is dependent on how far 
north the backdoor front retreats, before surging back southwest. 
Trended more to cooler guidance due to an earlier anticipation of 
the backdoor front surging back southwest into northeast NM

The forecast at this point becomes frightening with Old Man Winter 
sending chills down people's spines just in time for Halloween. The 
backdoor front, on the doorstep of the northern border of New 
Mexico, makes a sudden and harrowing entrance into the state with 
gusty northeast winds and much colder temperatures on the leading 
edge of the front. Additionally, higher surface moisture across West 
Texas could wrap around behind the strong polar front and interact 
with the shallow colder airmass resulting in some wintry 
precipitation across northeast and east central NM near the Texas 
border late Saturday night. Soundings in this area support the 
mention of some freezing rain. The backdoor front will make further 
progress south and west heading into Sunday morning ending up 
somewhere near the Continental Divide. This could result in a light 
east canyon wind across the ABQ metro. The GFS and ECMWF seem to 
better agree on the timing and speed of the front, so expect a much 
colder day areawide. Areas west of the central mountain chain look 
to have high temperatures 5 to 10 degrees below average, where the 
colder airmass will be more shallow, while areas along and east of 
the  central mountain chain will have high temperatures 20 to as 
much as 32 degrees below average due to the modified continental 
polar airmass being deeper. Moist easterly flow behind the backdoor 
polar front will keep a deck of low clouds across eastern NM, so it 
will definitely feel like a raw day across this region. As the upper 
level trough digs southeast over the Four Corners (which the 
deterministic and ensemble models now better agree on in regards to 
speed and placement), upper level divergence ahead of it could cause 
some lower elevation showers and higher elevation snow break out 
across north central areas Sunday afternoon into Sunday night. 
Little to no accumulations are expected at this time. 

Come Sunday night, the modified continental polar airmass along the 
east slopes of the central mountain chain looks to spill over west 
into the RGV towards the Arizona border resulting in some gusty east 
winds across the ABQ metro. This will result in a widespread hard 
freeze across northern New Mexico, with ABQ probably seeing its 
first freeze of the season. A colder Monday will be on tap for areas 
west of the central mountain chain, with temperatures 10 to 20 
degrees below average. Temperatures across the eastern plains looks 
to moderate a little with highs around 20 degrees below average. 
Following another hard freeze Monday night, temperatures begin to 
slowly warm areawide on Halloween Tuesday as the upper level trough 
gradually exits east. Temperatures will still be 5 to 20 degrees 
below average.

Anand

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 1146 PM MDT Wed Oct 25 2023

VFR conditions are expected to prevail through the TAF period.
Breezy west winds around 10-15KT will continue through the night
in the eastern plains in the wake of an exiting upper low. Light
winds overnight in west-central NM may allow patchy fog to 
develop between 10Z and 14Z however confidence is low so it was 
not included in any TAFs. Breezy southwest winds may gust up to 
35KT tomorrow afternoon at terminals east of the central 
mountains, excluding Roswell. High clouds will increase across the
northwest tomorrow afternoon where light winds will continue.


&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 329 PM MDT Wed Oct 25 2023

Showers and just a few stray thunderstorms will transition to the 
eastern plains early this evening, but should quickly fade and 
disappear shortly after sunset. Into Thursday, drier air arrives 
with stronger winds aloft and a lee-side surface low leading to 
breezy to locally windy conditions in the afternoon. The windiest 
area still appears be confined from the central and northeast 
highlands to the east central plains, or areas between Las Vegas, 
Clines Corners and Tucumcari. Surface and boundary (low) layer 
dewpoints will lower some into Thursday, causing lower relative 
humidity of 15 to 25 percent over much of eastern NM. This coupled 
with slightly warmer temperatures due to stronger downsloping 
southwest winds still look to bring a couple hours of elevated to 
critical fire weather to the windier areas of the northeastern 
quadrant of NM Thursday afternoon. Dry and less breezy conditions 
are expected for Friday with a cold front briefly entering and 
teasing eastern areas of the state. This cooler airmass will retreat 
on Saturday, but will surge back even stronger into NM Saturday 
night. This will lead to an abrupt and significant cool-down 
everywhere Sunday and Monday, but temperatures in eastern NM will 
likely be some of the most jarring, plummeting 20 to 30 degrees 
below average. Despite some gusty winds ushering in the colder air, 
relatively higher humidity will be present which will act to prevent 
critical fire weather from developing. A gradual warm up into the 
middle of next week will then take place.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Farmington......................  71  38  67  39 /   0   0   0   0 
Dulce...........................  68  29  64  29 /   5   0   0   5 
Cuba............................  65  35  64  34 /  10   0   0   0 
Gallup..........................  69  32  66  29 /   0   0   0   0 
El Morro........................  63  30  63  28 /  10   0   0   0 
Grants..........................  66  31  68  30 /  10   0   0   0 
Quemado.........................  64  31  67  30 /  20   0   0   0 
Magdalena.......................  62  39  70  39 /  30   0   0   0 
Datil...........................  63  34  67  34 /  20   0   0   0 
Reserve.........................  66  30  70  30 /  20   0   0   0 
Glenwood........................  67  42  72  43 /  10   0   0   0 
Chama...........................  63  29  58  30 /   5   0   0   5 
Los Alamos......................  57  42  65  42 /  30   0   0   0 
Pecos...........................  61  41  65  40 /  30   5   0   0 
Cerro/Questa....................  62  30  62  29 /  10   5   0   0 
Red River.......................  63  28  58  28 /  20   0   0   0 
Angel Fire......................  61  22  60  23 /  20   5   0   0 
Taos............................  66  31  65  31 /  10   0   0   0 
Mora............................  62  36  66  33 /  20   0   0   0 
Espanola........................  69  37  72  36 /  20   5   0   0 
Santa Fe........................  61  41  66  42 /  30   5   0   0 
Santa Fe Airport................  65  39  69  38 /  20   5   0   0 
Albuquerque Foothills...........  66  44  70  44 /  20   0   0   0 
Albuquerque Heights.............  67  46  72  46 /  20   0   0   0 
Albuquerque Valley..............  71  40  74  38 /  20   0   0   0 
Albuquerque West Mesa...........  68  45  72  44 /  20   0   0   0 
Belen...........................  72  40  74  39 /  20   0   0   0 
Bernalillo......................  68  43  73  41 /  20   0   0   0 
Bosque Farms....................  70  38  73  36 /  20   0   0   0 
Corrales........................  68  43  72  42 /  20   0   0   0 
Los Lunas.......................  71  40  74  38 /  20   0   0   0 
Placitas........................  67  44  69  44 /  20   0   0   0 
Rio Rancho......................  67  45  71  44 /  20   0   0   0 
Socorro.........................  71  44  75  43 /  20   0   0   0 
Sandia Park/Cedar Crest.........  61  42  64  42 /  20   0   0   0 
Tijeras.........................  64  42  66  42 /  20   0   0   0 
Edgewood........................  64  39  67  36 /  20   0   0   0 
Moriarty/Estancia...............  67  34  70  30 /  20   0   0   0 
Clines Corners..................  59  38  66  37 /  30   0   0   0 
Mountainair.....................  65  39  68  38 /  30   0   0   0 
Gran Quivira....................  64  40  68  38 /  30   0   0   0 
Carrizozo.......................  65  44  71  45 /  20   0   0   0 
Ruidoso.........................  60  39  67  41 /  30   0   0   0 
Capulin.........................  68  37  71  31 /  20  20   0   0 
Raton...........................  72  36  73  34 /  10  10   0   0 
Springer........................  73  37  75  35 /  10  10   0   0 
Las Vegas.......................  66  39  69  37 /  20  10   0   0 
Clayton.........................  74  47  78  39 /  10  10   0   0 
Roy.............................  70  42  75  38 /  20  10   0   0 
Conchas.........................  76  46  79  41 /  10  10   0   0 
Santa Rosa......................  74  48  76  43 /  20  10   0   0 
Tucumcari.......................  75  48  80  42 /  10  10   0   0 
Clovis..........................  73  49  78  46 /  10  10   0   5 
Portales........................  75  50  79  46 /  10  10   0   5 
Fort Sumner.....................  75  49  79  44 /  10  10   0   0 
Roswell.........................  77  51  82  49 /  20   0   0   5 
Picacho.........................  69  47  77  45 /  20   0   0   0 
Elk.............................  66  43  74  42 /  20   0   0   5 

&&

.ABQ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...52
LONG TERM....71
AVIATION...16
