535 
FXUS64 KFWD 260543
AFDFWD

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Fort Worth TX
1243 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New Short Term, Aviation... 

.SHORT TERM... /NEW/
/Rest of Tonight through Thursday/

Surface high pressure overhead North and Central Texas will allow
for light, northerly winds to continue into the overnight hours.
Light winds, a dry airmass with dewpoints in the mid 30s to mid
40s, and clear skies will allow for efficient radiational cooling.
Temperatures outside of the DFW Metroplex are already dropping 
well into the 40s, and we could see several rural locations fall 
into the mid to upper 30s by sunrise. 

Pleasant fall weather will persist through today and into Thursday
as zonal flow aloft prevails as the dominant upper-level pattern.
Southeasterly winds will return to the forecast area by Wednesday
afternoon as surface high pressure shifts to the northeast.
Slightly warmer afternoon highs in the 70s areawide are expected 
both Wednesday and Thursday afternoons. A few locations across 
Central Texas could approach 80 degrees by Thursday afternoon. 

By Thursday an upper-level trough will dig southward into New
Mexico. Increasing southerly surface flow will act in response to
cyclogenesis near the Texas Panhandle, Oklahoma Panhandle,
southeastern Colorado juncture. However, behind the previous cold
front, moisture return will struggle to transport dewpoints in 
the low to mid 50s northward into West Texas and the Texas 
Panhandle by the latter half of Thursday. Isolated convection will
be possible Thursday afternoon into Thursday evening, primarily 
west of the CWA. Widespread convective inhibition may hinder 
thunderstorm development and the degree of moisture return will be
important in determining if the cap can be eroded and how much 
instability will be in place. Additionally, the placement of the 
better quality moisture return will determine where the greatest 
potential for isolated convection will reside. The latest RAP 
places the nose of greater theta-e advection well west of the CWA,
whereas the GFS nudges the plume of moisture into our far western
counties over the Big Country. To account for this uncertainty, 
15-20% PoPs have been placed in our far western zones. With steep 
mid-level lapse rates >7.5 C/km and favorable shear profiles, any 
isolated storms that are able to develop would be capable of 
producing severe hail and damaging wind gusts. 

Stronger large-scale forcing for ascent and increased potential 
for widespread rainfall will arrive later Thursday night into 
Friday as this system shifts eastward. 

Langfeld

&&

.LONG TERM... /Issued 313 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022/
/Thursday Onward/

The long term forecast will start active as another strong weather 
system moves across North and Central Texas late this week. An
upper trough will dig into New Mexico Thursday with rapid height 
falls overspreading the Southern Plains. This will in turn deepen 
a surface low to our northwest and draw warm and moist air north,
resulting in a warm and breezy day Thursday. The blended guidance
indicates mid-50s dew points will be able to work as far north as
Stephens County by sunset with lower dewpoints further west and 
east. Several members of the raw guidance are more aggressive with 
the northward transport of moisture and indicate low 60s dewpoints
overspreading most of our Western Central Texas counties. How far
north the moisture-rich air is able to get will play a crucial 
role in the convective forecast Thursday afternoon and evening. 
These "just in time" moisture events usually result in either no 
warm-sector convection with the boundary layer remaining capped or
just enough moisture and associated low level buoyancy to erode 
the cap and support thunderstorm development late in the day. If
storms were to develop late Thursday, they would have potential to 
become severe. At this time, we have < 20% PoPs across Western
North Texas to account for this potential.

Much stronger forced ascent will move into our region Thursday
night and Friday as height and pressure falls move across Texas.
The surface low looks to slide across the west/southwestern parts
of our forecast area with an attendant warm front extending out of
the eastern half of the low. Strong low-level isentropic ascent 
surrounding the low and warm front, combined with strong forcing
in the mid/upper levels will result in another round of widespread 
rain with a few embedded thunderstorms Thursday night and Friday.
While thunderstorm chances are low, any elevated storms that are 
able to develop Thursday night will be capable of producing small 
hail given mid-level lapse rates between 7-8 deg C/km. We will
also have to monitor the position of the surface low, since a more
northward track will result in better thunderstorm potential for
our Central Texas counties. Better thunderstorm chances will also
be accompanied by a slightly elevated, but still low-end, severe
and flood threat. These details should continue to come into focus 
as the system moves into the Short Term forecast periods. Either 
way, this should be the second good rain-producing system to move 
across the region this week...a welcome sight after the long, hot 
summer. 

The surface low should rush into East Texas/Louisiana by Saturday 
morning, but the upper system will take its time moving east. This 
should result in scattered wrap-around precip Friday night and 
Saturday morning before the upper low pulls northeast Saturday 
afternoon. Cooler temperatures are forecast Friday and Saturday 
with highs only in the low-mid 60s. Dry west to northwest flow 
will then prevail early next week before a warm and moist 
advective regime returns by mid-week.

Bonnette

&&

.AVIATION... /NEW/
/06Z TAFs/

VFR will prevail through the TAF period. Light, northerly winds 
will persist through the overnight hours and into Wednesday 
morning before gradually veering to the southeast during the day 
Wednesday. Wind speeds are expected to generally remain below 10 
knots.

Langfeld

&&


.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Dallas-Ft. Worth    47  72  50  73  54 /   0   0   0   5  70 
Waco                43  76  45  78  55 /   0   0   0   5  70 
Paris               41  70  45  69  51 /   0   0   0   0  60 
Denton              42  72  44  73  51 /   0   0   0  10  70 
McKinney            42  71  44  72  51 /   0   0   0   5  70 
Dallas              47  72  49  73  53 /   0   0   0   5  70 
Terrell             43  71  44  73  52 /   0   0   0   0  70 
Corsicana           45  73  47  75  54 /   0   0   0   0  60 
Temple              43  76  46  78  56 /   0   0   0   5  60 
Mineral Wells       40  75  45  76  51 /   0   0   0  10  70 

&&

.FWD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$
