361 
FXUS63 KMKX 261507
AFDMKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Milwaukee/Sullivan WI
1007 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
(Issued 1007 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

With the low pressure continuing to move northeast out of the
Great Lake Region this morning, the broad area of high pressure
will begin to gradually build in from the west. Some mid to low
level clouds have begun to move into southern Wisconsin from the
north this morning. This cloud deck will keep conditions near
central Wisconsin mostly cloudy to overcast for much of the
morning and early afternoon. This cloud cover across central
Wisconsin may impact temps this afternoon by keeping things a bit
cooler. 

Patterson

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Issued 239 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

Today through Thursday:

Initial focus is on ushering out the western edge of rain sitting
over southeast Wisconsin as a low pressure system currently over
northern Indiana tracks through the southern Great Lakes this
morning. By the time most people, all two of you, read this AFD,
the rain will likely already be out of SE WI and out over Lake
Michigan.

While most of the upper level cloud cover should get shunted east
pretty quickly this morning, some lower level moisture should get
trapped under an inversion that starts around 900mb. With low
level mixing taking place, expect that there will be a cu field
that forms this morning and lasts into the afternoon. Just not
certain on how widespread/blanketed it will be in the cold air
advection side of the system. RAP 26.06z run has a decent amount
of moisture in the 1000-850mb level in through about 21z with
higher amounts toward central Wisconsin, so have kept temps a tad
cooler there for today with the thinking the clouds will be a bit
more widespread there.

The broad ridge of high pressure will center itself over southern
Wisconsin tonight before ending up in the eastern Great lakes by
tomorrow afternoon, which would put us back on the weak southerly
return flow on the western periphery of the ridge. There isn't
much warm air for those southerly winds to pull up into the area,
so we won't warm up a ton, but at least linger around what is
normal for this time of year.

Halbach

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Issued 239 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

Thursday night through Saturday night:

A very quiet period is expected with surface ridging extending
westward from the eastern seaboard right through the western 
Lakes region. While this pattern will be shaping up to be on the 
dry side the one thing we will have to keep an eye on will be 
overnight/early morning fog development. This would be due to 
longer nights, light winds and the recent rainfall which can lead 
to some more frequent occurrences of fog formation this time of 
year. 

Sunday through Monday:

While the surface ridging will persist we will also be monitoring
a low that will start heading northeast from the Mid Miss Vly
region. The GFS and Canadian are showing that any rain from this
would be to our southeast while the ECMWF was a little more 
aggressive with some rain sneaking in to the southeast for Sunday
afternoon/evening. The NBM favors some pops to account for this so
will leave them be for now. 

Tuesday:

Should see a southwest/northeast oriented lower level thermal 
ridge amplify across the area ahead of a cold front. Warmer temps
will likely result with any frontal precip tied to the boundary which
is proggd to still be off to our northwest through the day.

Collar

&&

.AVIATION...
(Issued 1007 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

MVFR to VFR conditions are expected through the period. A deck of
low to mid level clouds around 1-2.5 kft has begun to develop and
move in from the north this morning. This broken deck of clouds is
expected to persist through much of the day, before gradually
scattering out during the evening and overnight hours. Winds will
remain gusty this morning with gusts up to 20 kts for much of the
area. As high pressure begins to build in later this evening the
winds will start to diminish and become more variable. By tonight
skies are expected to be mostly clear with light and variable
winds. 

Patterson

&&

.MARINE...
(Issued 239 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

Main issue is with the Gales that are expected this morning.
Started the Gale Warning already since a few sites were hitting
33kts already on the far south end of the lake. The strongest
period of winds will be now through mid morning as the low
pressure system, which is currently in northern Indiana, moves
through the region. Forecast guidance is suggesting that the
strongest gusts that can mix down will be around 35-37kts over the
next few hours. Winds will still stay up around 25-30kts through
the afternoon but should diminish greatly tonight as a ridge of
high pressure moves into the central portion of Lake Michigan.
With high pressure generally in place through the rest of the
week, am expecting winds to stay on the lower side for much of the
lake, but could see some higher winds on the north end where the
southerly return flow could be a bit stronger.

Halbach

&&

.MKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...None.
LM...Gale Warning...LMZ080-LMZ567-LMZ669-LMZ671-LMZ673-LMZ675-LMZ777-
     LMZ779-LMZ868-LMZ870-LMZ872-LMZ874-LMZ876-LMZ878 until 11 
     AM Wednesday.

     Small Craft Advisory...LMZ643-LMZ644-LMZ645-LMZ646 until 4 PM 
     Wednesday.

&&

$$

Visit us at weather.gov/milwaukee

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSMilwaukee
www.twitter.com/NWSMilwaukee
www.youtube.com/NWSMilwaukee
