516 
FXUS63 KDTX 261444
AFDDTX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Detroit/Pontiac MI
1044 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...

Surface low pressure now centered over lower MI continues to drag a 
cold front through southeast MI over the next several hours, evident 
in both surface observations and a radar fine line feature. The 
frontal boundary is currently oriented SW-NE from a line extending 
roughly between Adrian-Pontiac-Bad Axe. Temperatures ahead of the 
front are in the upper 50s with about a 10 degree drop in both 
temperature and dewpoint following the frontal passage. Fropa also 
initiates a period of gusty winds in the wake of cold advection and 
an enhanced low level wind field, peaking around 25-30 mph this
afternoon. Precipitation coverage is not quite as widespread as 
earlier this morning per radar trends and upstream coverage, 
particularly for areas south of I-96, thus have trended PoPs slightly
lower for those areas. Weakening vorticity maxima swings into 
southeast MI early to mid afternoon, driving a resurgence of shower 
activity into the area. Hi-res models suggest the northern portions 
of this band hold together more substantially, thus chance PoPs are 
reasonable south of I-96 even heading into the afternoon. Showers 
then come to an end from west to east as the vorticity lobe departs 
and isentropic downglide takes hold. 

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...
Issued at 708 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

AVIATION...

A strong and well-organized low pressure system moves from northern 
IN across SE MI this morning while bringing bands of rain showers 
and low ceiling to the region. Early morning observations indicate 
expansion of IFR ceiling and MVFR visibility within and around the 
west flank of the surface low center and trailing occluded front as 
they progress across Lower MI and northern OH into southern Ontario 
by this afternoon. The wind shifts NW and becomes gusty as the system
exits the region. Gusts near 30 knots also bring in a surge of 
colder air which, along with the decrease in showers, begins some 
ceiling improvement during the afternoon. Surface high pressure 
inbound from the Midwest then helps break up borderline MVFR/VFR 
ceiling this evening leading to a clearing trend late tonight and 
Thursday morning. 

For DTW... Ceiling quickly transitions down to IFR for a few hours 
while showers break up during the morning as low pressure crosses SE 
MI. Wind shifts NW to gusts of 25 to 30 knots while the west flank 
of showers moves through the region this afternoon. Some late 
ceiling improvement toward low end VFR is possible as rain exits the 
region by evening. 

 DTW THRESHOLD PROBABILITIES...

* High for ceiling 5000 feet or less today and this evening. 

* Moderate for exceedance of crosswind thresholds this afternoon.

PREV DISCUSSION...
Issued at 422 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

DISCUSSION...

Early morning GOES-16 water vapor imagery depicts a negatively 
tilted shortwave lifting northward across central Indiana as it 
merges with the longwave trough moving in from the Upper Midwest. 
Ascent via divergent flow ahead of the wave and jet-induced 
ageostrophic response is sweeping across Lower Michigan at press 
time and capitalizing on PWATs around 1.25 inches to produce an arc 
of light to moderate showers. This forcing will slide into Lake 
Huron later this morning as the surface low becomes briefly centered 
over SE MI.

May see a brief lull in shower activity before the cold front 
impinges from the west later this morning and reinvigorates forcing 
for ascent. This will gain a slight boost from the deformation 
region of the low and a weakening trowal tracking overhead to 
produce additional showers through the midday period. All in all, 
latest guidance continues to support storm total QPF ranging from 
around 0.25 to 0.75 inches with the higher amounts mainly focused 
near the Tri-Cities. This will do little to alleviate the moderate 
drought that has developed over the past few months as 90 day 
rainfall deficits range from about 2 to 6 inches across the area.

A sharp intrusion of post-frontal dry air will ride in on a gusty 
northwest wind as the surface low quickly departs to the east. This 
will bring an end to all shower activity by the early evening with 
temperatures tumbling from the mid 50s midday to the 40s by sunset. 
Wind gusts of 25 to 30 mph will be common through the afternoon and 
early evening before the pressure gradient and cold advection eases 
heading into tonight. Question remains whether a shallow 
stratocumulus deck will linger tonight, but latest guidance does 
suggest that the deep layer isentropic downglide will be enough to 
penetrate the shallow saturated layer and lead to mostly clear skies 
overnight. With winds becoming light as high pressure moves in from 
the west by Thursday morning, lows should settle well into the 30s.

Broad high pressure takes residence over the Great Lakes Thursday in 
response to a rising height field in the wake of the departing 
trough. This leads to quiet and dry conditions with mostly sunny 
skies. A much cooler air mass in place will limit temperature 
recovery to the 50s for an afternoon high. A cut-off low is then 
progged to drift into the southern Plains this weekend which keeps 
ridging overhead Friday through Sunday. Quiet conditions will 
prevail with a modest warming trend bringing high temps to around 60 
this weekend. The next chance for rain moves in Sunday night into 
Monday as the cut-off low meanders northeastward and gets absorbed 
into the northern stream.

MARINE...

Low pressure lifts across the central Great Lakes today generating 
widespread rain showers across the area. Surge of colder air on the 
backside of the system combined with the tighter gradient likely 
leads to the development of NW gales (~35kts) late this afternoon 
into early tonight over most of Lake Huron - strongest winds 
expected over the central portions of the lake. Gale Warnings remain 
in effect for this timeframe with Small Craft advisories up for all 
other nearshore waters. Winds rapidly diminish going into Thursday 
as strengthening high pressure tracks directly over the region. High 
pressure will continue to influence the central lakes through most 
if not all of the coming weekend.

HYDROLOGY...

A mature low pressure system lifts into the region this morning 
followed by a cold frontal passage this afternoon. These features 
will produce numerous light to moderate showers across all of 
Southeast Michigan through the afternoon. Basin-average rainfall 
totals are expected to range from 0.25 inches to 0.75 inches with 
the highest totals most likely to occur near the Tri-Cities. 
Antecedent dry conditions and the expected rainfall amounts preclude 
a flooding threat. Drier weather then settles in for the rest of the 
week and the weekend.

&&

.DTX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...None.
Lake Huron...Gale Warning until 10 PM EDT this evening for LHZ361-362.

     Gale Warning from 2 PM this afternoon to 4 AM EDT Thursday for 
     LHZ363-441-442-462-463.

     Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EDT Thursday for LHZ421.

     Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for LHZ422.

     Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 4 AM EDT Thursday 
     for LHZ443.

Lake St Clair...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EDT this 
     evening for LCZ460.

Michigan waters of Lake Erie...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EDT this 
     evening for LEZ444.

&&

$$

UPDATE.......MV
AVIATION.....BT
DISCUSSION...TF
MARINE.......KDK
HYDROLOGY....TF


You can obtain your latest National Weather Service forecasts online
at www.weather.gov/detroit.
