021 
FXUS65 KTFX 260848 CCA
AFDTFX

Area Forecast Discussion...Corrected National Weather Service Great 
Falls MT 241 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...

A weather disturbance moving southeast across Idaho today will bring 
a period of snow showers to mostly the mountains of Southwest 
Montana while much of north-central Montana remains dry. Strong, 
gusty winds are expected across much of Central and North-central 
Montana, especially the Rocky Mountain Front and areas north of the 
Little Belts, beginning late Wednesday through Thursday night

&&

.DISCUSSION...

Today through Tonight...Weak upper-level ridging overhead is quickly 
superseded with a longwave trough from the west that propagates 
toward the Continental Divide early this morning and with it, decent 
moisture embedded. As the trough propagates, it digs southward, with 
majority of its energy moving southeastward across Idaho, leading to 
a brief period of snow showers developing mostly over the mountains 
of Southwest Montana, more specifically the higher elevations along 
the Beaverhead, Centennial, and Madison ranges. Latest model 
guidance suggests a high (>80%) probability of these ranges 
exceeding an inch of total accumulation along the Montana-Idaho 
border and upwards of 4 inches in the Madison range through late 
tonight.

Thursday through Friday...As the aforementioned trough deepens into 
southwest CONUS, winds pick up again, particularly along the Rocky 
Mountain Front and adjacent plains and across portions of Cascade 
County. NBM v4.1 depicts portions of Cascade County, including Great 
Falls, has a high (70-80%) probability of gusts exceeding 48 knots 
(55 mph). 

The latest probabilistic guidance from NBM v4.1 also suggests a 
medium (60-70%) chance of gusts greater than 41 knots (47 mph) for 
portions of Judith Basin and Judith Basin Gap. After careful 
consideration, these zones were also added to the current High Wind 
Watch given the tightened pressure gradient along the Montana 
Highway 200 corridor and climatology of the area notoriously being a 
wind-prone location.

In addition, confidence was high enough to upgrade the Rocky 
Mountain Front and adjacent foothills and plains to a High Wind 
Warning. NBM v4.1 depicts a high (>80%) probability of gusts 
exceeding 64 knots (73 mph) across the Rocky Mountain Front and a 
medium (50-60%) probability of gusts of 56 knots (64 mph) or greater 
reaching the Cut Bank vicinity. The magnitude of these strong winds 
could create difficult travel conditions for high-profile vehicles 
or those pulling trailers, cause tree and/or property damage, and 
blow away unsecured objects. 

Friday through next Wednesday...Winds mellow out this Halloween 
weekend, with weak upper-level ridging and zonal flow, suggesting 
warmer and drier conditions. Afternoon temperatures warm up 
slightly, returning closer to near and just above seasonal averages, 
with upper 50s approaching 60 in North-central Montana, and upper 
40s nearing 50 in the Southwest. However, after a brief hiatus, 
strong winds return the region Sunday night into Halloween day, with 
a medium (60-70%) probability of gusts in excess of 48 knots (55 
mph) to the Rocky Mountain Front and portions of Central Montana. 

Long-range models supports a deep trough propagating out of the Gulf 
of Alaska next week; however, confidence is low regarding specific 
details on strength and timing. That being said, the latest NBM run 
suggests temperatures return to below average with unsettled 
conditions that may lead to precipitation by mid-week. - Pierce

&&

.AVIATION...
1102 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022 (26/06Z TAF period)

Continued mountain obscuration is expected through the entire 
2606/2706 TAF period as Pacific moisture streams eastward within an 
overall zonal flow pattern. A weak disturbance moving within this 
pattern will bring another round of mountain snow and valley/plain 
rain/snow to areas southwest of a KCTB, to KGTF, to KLVM line from 
approximately 12z Wednesday to 03z Thursday. While a rogue snow/rain 
shower can't be ruled out at the KHLN, KBZN, and KEKS terminals over 
this timeframe, confidence remains too low to mention any prevailing 
groups. VFR conditions are predominately expected across the 
Northern Rockies over the next 24 hours, with the exception of 
beneath areas of precipitation where MVFR conditions will occur. - 
Moldan

KWYS TAF will not be issued again until airport operations resume 
next spring.

Refer to weather.gov/zlc for more detailed regional aviation weather 
and hazard information.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
GTF  49  29  52  35 /  10  10   0   0 CTB  46  28  47  32 /   0  10 
 0   0 HLN  48  28  51  29 /  30   0  0   0 BZN  45  19  46  20 / 
40  20  0   0 WYS  36  10  34   9 / 80  60  0   0 DLN  39  17  42 
21 / 60  30  0   0 HVR  50  30  54 36 / 0   0 0   0 LWT  47  25  49 
30 
/  10  10  0   0 

&&

.TFX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...

High Wind Warning in effect for the Rocky Mountain Front, Eastern 
Glacier, Western Toole, and Central Pondera and adjacent foothills 
and plains from late Wednesday night through Friday morning.

High Wind Watch in effect for Cascade County below 5000ft, Judith 
Basin County, and Judith Gap from Thursday afternoon through 
Thursday evening.

&&

$$

http://www.weather.gov/greatfalls
